Add basic authorization tutorial steps. (#6388)
cakephp/docs: en/tutorials-and-examples/cms/authentication.rst

CMS Tutorial - Authentication
#############################

Now that our CMS has users, we can enable them to login using the
`cakephp/authentication <https://book.cakephp.org/authentication/2>`__

> plugin. We are going to ensure passwords are stored securely in

Reviewer: Let's break this up into a list or fix the run-on sentences.

our database, we are going to provide a working login page, and apply some
basic access control to the article creation & editing experiences.

Installing Authentication Plugin
================================

> Use composer to install the Authentication Plugin::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use composer to install the Authentication Plugin:
```

.. code-block:: bash

    composer require cakephp/authentication:^2.0

Adding Password Hashing
-----------------------

> We will assume you have created the ``Controller``, ``Table``, ``Entity`` and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to have created the ``Controller``, ``Table``, ``Entity`` and
```

templates for the ``users`` table in your database. You can do this manually
like you did before for the ArticlesController, or you can use the bake shell

> to generate the classes for you using ``bin/cake bake all users``.

Reviewer: Let's make this a proper code block to follow convention and not hide commands as this is the recommended practice.

call a convention based setter method any time a property is set in one of your
entities. Let's add a setter for the password. In **src/Model/Entity/User.php**
add the following::

    <?php
    namespace App\Model\Entity;

    use Authentication\PasswordHasher\DefaultPasswordHasher; // Add this line
    use Cake\ORM\Entity;

    class User extends Entity
    {
        // Code from bake.

        // Add this method
        protected function _setPassword(string $password) : ?string
        {
            if (strlen($password) > 0) {
                return (new DefaultPasswordHasher())->hash($password);
            }
        }
    }

Now, point your browser to **http://localhost:8765/users** to see a list of users.
Remember you'll need to have your local server running. Start a standalone PHP
server using ``bin/cake server``

You can edit the default user that was created during
:doc:`Installation <installation>`. If you change that user's password,
you should see a hashed password instead of the original value on the list or
view pages. CakePHP hashes passwords with `bcrypt
<http://codahale.com/how-to-safely-store-a-password/>`_ by default. We recommend

> bcrypt for all new applications to keep your security standards high. Note this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
bcrypt for all new applications to keep your security standards high. This
```

> is the `recommended password hash algorithm for PHP <https://www.php.net/manual/en/function.password-hash.php>`_ too.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is the `recommended password hash algorithm for PHP <https://www.php.net/manual/en/function.password-hash.php>`_.
```

Let's be assertive.

All your pages will be restricted as the ``AuthenticationComponent`` is checking the
result on every request. When it fails to find any authenticated user, it'll redirect the
user to the ``/users/login`` page.
Note at this point, the site won't work as we don't have a login page yet.
If you visit your site, you'll get an "infinite redirect loop" so let's fix that.

In your UsersController, add the following code::

    public function beforeFilter(\Cake\Event\EventInterface $event)
    {
        parent::beforeFilter($event);
        // configure the login action to don't require authentication, preventing
        // the infinite redirect loop issue
        $this->Authentication->addUnauthenticatedActions(['login']);
    }

    public function login() {
        $this->request->allowMethod(['get', 'post']);
        $result = $this->Authentication->getResult();
        // regardless of POST or GET, redirect if user is logged in
        if ($result->isValid()) {
            // redirect to /pages/home after login success
            $redirect = $this->request->getQuery('redirect', [
                'controller' => 'Pages',
                'action' => 'display',

>                 'home'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                'home',
```

            ]);

            return $this->redirect($redirect);
        }
        // display error if user submitted and authentication failed
        if ($this->request->is('post') && !$result->isValid()) {
            $this->Flash->error(__('Invalid username or password'));
        }
    }

Add the template logic for your login action::

    // in /templates/Users/login.php
    <div class="users form">
        <?= $this->Flash->render() ?>
        <?= $this->Form->create() ?>
        <fieldset>
            <legend><?= __('Please enter your username and password') ?></legend>
            <?= $this->Form->control('email', ['required' => true]) ?>
            <?= $this->Form->control('password', ['required' => true]) ?>
        </fieldset>
        <?= $this->Form->submit(__('Login')); ?>
        <?= $this->Form->end() ?>
    </div>

Now login page will allow us to correctly login into the application.

> Test it by requesting any page of your site and after being redirected

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Test it by requesting any page of your site. After being redirected
```

> to the ``/users/login`` page and entering the email and password you

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to the ``/users/login`` page, enter the email and password you
```

picked previously when creating your user. You should be redirected
successfully after login.

We need to add a couple more details to configure our application.

> We want all ``view`` and ``index`` pages "public" so we'll add this specific

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We want all ``view`` and ``index`` pages accessible without logging in so we'll add this specific
```
